 

17. What is the hypotenusal allowance for a 30 m chain?
Ans. 150 (sec 6 — 1) links

18. What are compensating errors?
Ans. The errors which are liable to occur in either direction
and tend to compensate, are called compensating errors.

19. Find the slope correction for a slope distance L where
difference in reduced levels of the end points is A,
_ Ah?

2L

20. A steel tape of weight W suspended between two ends
where L is the horizontal distance between them. If the pull
applied at the ends is P, what is the sag correction?

Ans. Slope correction

2
Ans. Sag correction = Liv
24 P

21. A runway of an aerodrome was measured to be of length
3500 m. If its elevation above MSL is 400 m and the radius
of the earth is 6370 km, find the correction in length of.the:
run way reduced to MSL.

. Lh 3500x400
Ans. MSL correction = B= 6370
22. What is meant by chain surveying?
Ans. A method of surveying in which sides of various trian-
gles are measured directly in the field and in which angular
measurements taken, is called chain surveying.

=220.m Ans.

23. When is chain surveying most suitabla?

Ans. Chain surveying is most suitable for large scale plans
of small areas in extent if the ground is fairly level with open
and simple details.

24. What is the principle of chain surveying?
Ans. The principle of chain surveying is to divide the area
to be surveyed into a number of triangles of suitable sizes.

25. Differentiate between a well conditioned triangle and an
ill-conditioned triangle.

Ans. The triangles having angles smaller than 30° or greater
than 120°, are called ill-conditioned triangles and those having
angles forming nearly equilaterals, are called well-eonditioned
triangles.

26. What is a base lime in chain surveying?
Ans. The longest chain line is called a base line.

27. Differentiate between a check line and Tie line.
Ans. The chain line joining two subsidiary stations on two
separate chain lines, used to locate the interior details, far
from the main chain lines, is called a tie line whereas a check
line is used to check the accuracy of the field work.

28. What are offsets in chain surveying?

Ans. The lateral measurements taken right or left of the chain
line to locate the detail points with respect to chain line, are
called offsets.

29. How many types of offsets are used in chain surveying?
Ans. The following two types of offsets are used in chain
surveying i.e.

1. Perpendicular offsets

2.Radial or oblique offsets.

30. What are long offsets and short offsets?

 

Ans. The offsets having length more than 15 m, are called
long offsets and those having length less than 15 m, are called
short offsets.

31. What is meant by ‘taking offsets’?
Ans. The complete operation of measuring the length of offsets
and recording them in the field book is known as taking offsets.

32. How will you decide the accuracy of offsets.

Ans. The limit of precision in plotting is 0.25 mm. Depending
upon the scale of survey and precision of plotting, the accuracy
of offsets is decided.

33. A total length of 360 m is measured by a 20 m chain and
the displacement of the chain is 1.0 m per chain length. Find
the total error in the length?

2
Ans. We know error per 20 m chain § [ = 0 m, where d is

deviation

1x18

"Total error in length = =45 cm Ans.

 

84. What's a reference location sketch?

Ans. The sketch showing measurements at least to three per-
manent and definite points in the vicinity of survey station,
is known as a reference location sketch.

35. Name the various, instruments used for setting out the
richtlangles.

Ans. The instruments are : open cross staff. French cross staff,
adjustable cross staff and optical square.

86. What is the angle between two inclined plane mirrors of
an optical square?
Ans. 45°

37. What ate conventional signs on a map?
Ans. The symbols which are drawn to depict natural or
cultural details on a map, are known as conventional signs.

38. What is a compass Surveying?

Ans. The branch of surveying in which direction of survey lines
are determined by a compass and their lengths by chaining di-
rectly on the surface of the earth, is called compass surveying.

39. What#§ meant by traverse? Give their classification.
Ans. A series of connected straight lines each joining two
points on the ground, is called a traverse. The traverses of
two types: open traverse; closed traverse.

40. Differentiate between open and closed traverses.

Ans. The traverse which originates from a known station and
closes on the same station is called a closed traverse whereas
the open traverse does not return to the starting point or any
other known station.

41. What are the spherical coordinates of North magnetic pole?
Ans. North magnetic north is located near 70° North Latitude
and 96° West Longitude in the northern hemisphere.

42. What is meant by dip of the magnetic needle?

Ans. The angle of inclination between the longitudinal axis of
magnetic needle and the horizontal plane through its pivot,
is known as dip or inclination of the needle.

43. What are isoclinic lines?
Ans. The imaginary lines joining the points having same dip
on the surface of the earth, are known as isoclinic lines.
