 

96. Define the discharge of flow.

Ans. The volume of fluid flowing per unit time across any
section of a conduit is known as the discharge or rate of flow.
It is usually denoted by

97. State the equation of continuity of flow.

Ans. It states, “The quantity of fluid per unit time entering
at one end of the stream tube and leaving at its other end
must be the same.”

98. The quantity of water flowing through the pipe of diameter
8 cm is 0.1 m®s. What is the average velocity of flow?
Ans. Area of cross-section of the pipe
A =n/4 8% = 50.2 cm? = 0.00502, m?
Applying the equation, @ = AV
Q 0.1

We get V= = 5.00502

99. Write down the equation of continuity for a three-dimen-
sional in compressible flow.
Ans. 2 + = + A 0

ox dy ox
100. What is a stagnation point in a two,dimensionhal flow?
Ans. The point in the two dimensional flow where no motion
exists, is known as a stagnation point.

101. If the velocity components of flow are” 7="3xy3 and va’
—»°, then prove that the flow is continuous?

=19.92 m/s.

Ans. Given: u = 3xy*= x
[a]
Vadis
Y 0x
Differentiating the velocity components. We get
ou

—=3y?and 2D ns 3y?
Ox oy
Substituting the values in the equation of continuity, we
get
ou ov
50355 =i 2_al=
x or 3y*—3y°=0

Hence, the flow is continuous proved. Ans’

102. Define a flow net.

Ans. Graphical representation of stream lines and equipo-
tential lines which are perpendicular to each other, is called
a flow net.

103. The flow net can be drawn for rotational/ irrotational flow.
Ans. For irrotational flow.

104. Write down the condition of orthogonalic of stream lines
and potential lines.
Ans. The necessary condition for the orthogonality of stream
lines and potential lines is:

o ov, & v_,

ox ox dy oy
105. Define the energy.
Ans. The energy may be defined as the ability to do work.

106. What do you understand by the elevation energy of fluid?
Ans. The energy in a fluid due to its position or elevation with
respect to an arbitrary datum plane, is called the elevation
energy. [tis also known as the gravitational potential energy.

 

Kk]

107. Define the kinetic energy of a fluid.
Ans. The ability of a fluid mass to do work due to its velocity
is called the kinetic energy. It is also known as velocity energy.
2
Its magnitude is Be
28

108. Define the pressure energy of a fluid flow.
Ans. The work done in pushing a mass of fluid across a sec-
tion by the fluid pressure, is called the pressure energy. It is
also known as flow energy. Its magnitude is p/w where w is
specific weight of the fluid.

109. State the Bernoulli's theorem.
Ans. It states “In a steady flow of frictionless incompressible
fluid flow system the total energy per unit weight of the flowing
fluid remains constant”.
OR

“In a steady flow system of frictionless incompressible
fluid, the sum of the pressure, elevation and velocity heads
remains constant at every section provided no energy is added
or.taken'out by the external source”.

2

P| Ye P= Head

w. 2g
1104Name the fortes that are taken into consideration while
deriving the Bernoulli’'siequation.
Ans. The gravity and pressure forces.

114. Kinetie eorregtion factor (a) for laminar flow of fluid in
pipe is 2. (True/False)
Ans. True.

112. Define the piezomeétric head.

Ans. The term p/w+ = in the Bernoulli's equation is known
as piezometric head where p/w is the pressure head and z in
the potential head.

113« Differentiate between hydraulic gradient, piezometric
line, piezometric head line and pressure grade line.

Ans. The hydraulie gradient, piezometric line piezometric
head line and pressure grade line are same and it represents
a line joining the points to which the liquid will rise in verti-
cal piezometer tubes fitted at different cross-sections of the
pipe line.

114. Define the energy line.

Ans. The graphical representation of the total head at any
section of the pipe line above the same datum, is called the
energy line. It is also known as total head line.

115. Due to sudden reduction in the diameter of a pipeline,
the energy grade line drops vertically. (True/False)
Ans. True.

116. Due to sudden contraction in the diameter of a pipe line,
the vertical spacing between the energy gradient line and
hydraulic gradient line decreases. (True/False)
Ans. False.

117. Define the horsepower (HP).

Ans. The horse power (HP) may be defined as the product of
the density (w), the discharge (@) and the head divided by 75.
i.e., HP = WQHIT5.

118. The path traversed by a liquid jet issued from a nozzle,is
parabolic/circular.

Ans. Parabolic path.
