side lengths in the proportion 3:4:5. To specify the angles would require a trigonometric calculation.
We now provide commands for these and some common operations that you might need. You may
wonder, how does a computer calculate the value of the sine of an angle, or the square root of a
number? The answers to these questions will come later. For now you can just use the following
commands without worrying about how the calculation actually happens.

Let us start with square roots. If you want to find the square root of a number x, then the
command for that is sqrt. You simply write sqrt(x) in your program and during execution, the
square root of x will be calculated, and will be used in place of the command. So for example, here
is how you can draw an isoceles right angled triangle.

forward (100) ;

left (90);

forward (100) ;

left (135);

forward (100*sqrt(2));

The commands for computing trigonometric ratios are sine, cosine and tangent. Each of these
take a single argument: the angle in degrees. So for example, writing tangent (45) will be as good
as writing 1.

The commands for inverse trigonometric ratios are arcsine, arccosine and arctangent. These
will take a single number as an argument and will return an angle (in degrees). For example,
arccosine (0.5) will be 60 as expected. These commands return the angle in the range -90 to +90.
An important additional command is arctangent2. This needs two arguments, y and x respectively.
Writing arctangent2(y,x) will return the inverse tangent of y/x in the full range, -180 to +180.

To draw a triangle with side lengths 75, 100, 125 you may simply execute the following.

forward (75);

left (90);

forward (100) ;

left (arctangent2(75,-100)) ;
forward (125) ;

As you might guess, we can put expressions into arguments of commands, and put the commands
themselves into other expressions and so on.
Some other useful commands that are also provided:

1. exp, log, logl0: These return respectively for argument z the value of e* (where e is Euler’s

number, the base of the natural logarithm), the natural logarithm and the logarithm to base
10.

2. pow : This takes 2 arguments, pow (x,y) returns z¥.
3. sin, cos, tan respectively return the sine, cosine, and tangent of an angle, but it must be
specified in radians.

4. asin, acos, atan2 respectively return the arcsine, arccosine and arctangent, in radians. The
command atan2 takes 2 arguments x, y like the command arctangent?2 discussed above, and
returns the inverse tangent of y/x in the range — to 7.

The name PI can be used in your programs to denote 7, the ratio of the circumference of a circle to
its diameter]

5The name PI as also the commands sine, cosine, tangent, arcsine, arccosine and arctangent are part of
Simplecpp. All others e.g. sqrt, pow and the trigonometric commands using radians are a part of C++.
