3.2 Repeat within a repeat

What do you think the program below does?

#include <simplecpp>
main_program{
int nsides;

turtleSim();

repeat (10) {
cout << "Type in the number of sides: ";
cin >> nsides;
repeat (nsides){
forward (50) ;
left (360.0/nsides);
}
}
wait (5);
}

The key new idea in this program is the appearance of a repeat statement inside another repeat
statement. How does a computer execute this? Its rule is simple: to execute a repeat statement, it
just executes the body as many times as specified. In each iteration of the outer repeat statement
there will be one execution of the inner repeat statement. But one execution of the inner repeat
could have several iterations. Thus, in this case a single iteration of the outer repeat will cause the
user to be asked for the number of sides, after the user types in the number, the required number
of edges will be drawn by the inner repeat statement. After that, the next iteration of the outer
repeat would begin, for a total of 10 iterations. Thus a total of 10 polygons would be drawn, one
on top of another.

4 Some useful turtle commands

The following commands can also be used.

penUp() : This causes the pen to be raised. So after executing this command, the turtle will
move but no line will be drawn until the pen is lowered. There is nothing inside the () because no
number is needed to be specified, as was the case with forward, e.g. forward (10).

penDown() : This causes the pen to be lowered. So after executing this command, a line will be
drawn whenever the turtle moves, until the pen is raised again.

Thus if you write repeat (10) {forward (10); penUp(); forward(5); penDown();} a dashed
line will be drawn.

5 Numerical functions

The commands you have seen so far for controlling the turtle will enable you to draw several in-
teresting figures. However you will notice that it is cumbersome to draw some simple figures. For
example, if you wish to draw an isoceles right angled triangle, then you will need to take square
roots — and we havent said how to do that. Say you want to draw a simple right angled triangle with
